# Online Social Networks

**Overview of the module:** With its hyperlink structure, relational tables, friend lists and constant stream of information diffusion, network analysis is an obvious route to the analysis and understanding of the Internet’s dynamics. Beyond the use of formal algorithms for network analysis are questions of societal import such as the consequence of the number and structure of Facebook friends. This course introduces social network analysis with particular emphasis on research design, data collection and analysis. It takes a comparative approach to network topics, such as evaluating different measures of centrality, multiple approaches to clustering and variations on visualization, enabling students to make informed choices for analysis based on research questions rather than default tools or outmoded conventions.

**Coursework:** I decided to devote my coursework for this module to understanding how individuals listen to music. Especially, I was interested in the concept of omnivorousness, which describes that individuals of higher socio-demographic status listen to more music of higher variety and pooled from popular and niche culture, while individuals of lower socio-demographic status listen to less music of lower variety mostly from popular culture. I find that instead of socio-demographic status, local genre network structures mostly determine the listening behaviour of individuals. I find that no meaningful relationship exists between the amount of music played and its variety as well as the choice between popular and niche culture. Instead, overarching genre categories (e.g., pop, hip hop, jazz, electro) with a vast number of subgenres tend to lead individuals to listen to a higher variety of music and vice versa for overarching genre categories with a small number of subgernes.
